Daniel Uber
MCS 360 Quiz 14
AVL and Red-Black Trees

This program is basically the tree code copied straight out of the book,
with a few modifications to include writeDotFile in the AVL
and Red_Black trees insert functions. In my defence, the authors
did leave a few chunks undone (not a great deal of work) and tended
to scatter the pieces about. 

The program generated by `g++ main.cc`
will output a great number of dot files. The image directory is the right
place to run this program. In the image directory, execute dot.sh
to generate svg and png output (or tailor as needed). The png files
are used in the latex source to generate the pdf.

Simple coloring was used throughout due to deficiences in graphviz's
ability to layout directions. Left links are blue, right links are red.
In red black trees, red nodes have red circles, black nodes have black circles.
A subsection header begins each primary operation. Quite likely the 
dot file names for internal operations are misleading (or wrong), but
the sequence is correct. Invisible nodes are present to preserve alignment
as well as possible. A much denser, more linear presentation will be 
presented if the sections labelled optional in the tree2dot functions
are commented out.


instructions:

1. write the complete solution to the in-class AVL problem. Follow the instructions on the quiz for when to re-draw the tree.
2. Write the complete solution to the same problem except use a Red-Black Tree (notes attached) instead of an AVL tree. Follow the instructions on the quiz for when to re-draw the tree.

3. Your solution is to be sent electronically as was the take-home part of the other quizzes. Here is how to create an electronic version.

First Option: use OpenOffice or LibreOffice writer ( a Word clone) to draw the graphs. You can also use Word.

Save the document as a .pdf file and send both the .pdf file and the Writer (or Word file)

So far this is the only option unless you make arrangements with me to use different computer software to create the  graphs. It is unacceptable to write the solutions by hand, scan them on a printer and then send the scanned copy.

It is due on Tuesday as usual.